status: draft
title: Everyone Must Appreciate Coding Superiority
slug: dev-setup
category: Blog
tags: programming, python, c

Recently, I was jolted out of my programmer utopia when I learned that
a friend of mine - a good programmer, working on a large and complex
project in C - was using gedit for his programming. While it certainly
hasn't stopped him from being successful with it (and he most
definitely is), it left me with a vague sense of uneasiness that
hasn't quite gone away.

Imagine catching up to the person ahead of you at a marathon and
discovering that they've reached where they are by hopping on one
foot. You're simultaneously thankful for your substantially easier
two-legged technique, amazed at how much farther they could get if
they adopted it, and wondering how much they save on shoe prices. How
much, you wonder, would they have to run before they've saved enough
to drive around town in their fancy BMWs, pointing and laughing at the
poor two-legged marathon runners squandering their earnings away. This
felt almost nothing like that, the metaphor admittedly carried me
somewhere unexpected. But I digress.

Just to be clear, I'm not claiming that you can't write complex
software with gedit. But anyone who can will certainly be able to
write complex software far more efficiently and in far less time using
a more powerful tool. And by a more powerful tool I totally mean
[Emacs]().

<!-- Really. I'm too young to have marched under its banner during the -->
<!-- great editor wars of yore, but consider myself quite the fan. -->

I'd consider myself about 7000 hours short of calling myself an Emacs
expert, but it's proven an invaluable tool even in my extremely nooby
hands.
